well the French President Emanuel macron
is hosting world leaders and heads of
Aid groups to discuss getting
humanitarian help to people in Gaza uh
these are live pictures uh from the
scene as that conference is set to get
underway the talks will address
mobilizing funding and emergency
assistance delegates will also discuss
how to set up supply lines for essential
resources and that includes of course
water it includes Fuel and it includes
El electricity you can see French
president Emmanuel macron shaking the
hands of the attending delegates let's
go to Natasha Butler who joins us from
the lissy palace so Natasha first start
what are some of the aims and ideas
being discussed at this
conference well the delegates are still
arriving we understand amongst them
representatives of the Palestinian
Authority Israel not invited but the uh
Lis says that they will certainly be
brief on the outcomes of this conference
a conference that aims as you said to
look at ways to uh provide Palestinian
civilians with humanitarian Aid things
like food things like uh water
electricity uh medicine look at ways
also to get that Aid in and uh evacuate
some of the most uh injured people one
of the ideas that's being looked at is
something that was proposed by Cyprus
which is the closest EU member state to
Gaza and that would be a maritime
Corridor set up a humanitarian Corridor
that would use the sea in order to get
Aid in Via Cyprus uh to Gaza and
evacuate some of the were most wounded
of course that is extremely tricky uh
Gaza does not have at this stage the
sort of Port infrastructure that would
be needed there are also concerns that
Israel would want to check all that Aid
that is uh coming in so there are a
number of concerns about how that would
actually work in reality but those are
some of the things that are being
discussed as well as things like uh
Maritime floating in hospitals France is
reportedly preparing a ship in order to
send to the region France will also be
repeating calls for a humanitarian Seas
far how does that Mes in with the other
nations
sir that's right France calling for an
immediate humanitarian ceasefire uh and
it is expected that those at this
conference uh will do the same and we're
hearing more and more of those sorts of
calls from uh European Union countries
calling for a humanitarian foruse
because of course whatever happens at a
conference like this whatever ideas or
proposals are put forward and discussed
they will be useless unless there is a a
pause in the fighting to allow Aid to go
in to allow people uh to get out if
needed so uh that's why France is
repeating this call and we're expecting
to hear that as well as and I said this
grow momentum amongst many uh EU member
states uh for a humanitarian pause we
even heard uh on uh Wednesday St the
Belgian Deputy Prime Minister talked
also about the idea of proposing
sanctions against Israel for its bombing
of Gaza but for now what we're not
hearing from the majority of EU States
is a call for a ceasefire uh countries
like France and Germany still very much
saying that Israel has a right uh to
defend itself but all of this must be
done in the context of respecting
International humanitarian law time of
course is of the essence right now
Natasha they will be disc mobilizing
funding and emergency assistance and so
forth uh but even then it's still going
to take a fair bit of time to for that
Aid to arrive within
G well that's right and I mean even if
you uh look at something uh as I
mentioned before you know France is
preparing uh reportedly a helicopter
ship to send to the region that would
have medical facilities on board doctors
that kind of thing uh and Medical Aid
but we understand that that would take
10 days to reach the area and of course
every day every minute counts as we've
seen as people are there suffering on
the ground uh in Gaza civilians of
course going through uh such a terrible
and deadly time so all of that is going
to take time but this is the problem
with these conferences it is a lot of
talk it is a lot of discussion but what
people uh need is action and they need
it now Natasha thanks for that let's
listen in because uh the French
President
speak was Hamas is responsible for
putting many Palestinians in dangers as
we speak the gazans are suffering more
than 1 million have been
displaced thousands injured and killed
in addition to the the suffering of the
Gans the suffering of Palestinians
elsewhere also
doubled life each life is valuable we do
not have any dual standards in in the
face of terrorism Israel is obligated
not only to defend itself but
also to protect their people and all the
democracies in the world have the duty
to protect
civilians fighting against terrorism
cannot go
without rules we all realize that we
cannot succumb to violence or abandon
our values however weave we have shared
values and common virtues that dictate
we must attend to the civilians and the
humanitarian situation in Gaza civilians
must be protected and this is imperative
it is not negotiable it is an immediate
imperative and on the long run it is a
key factor in our fight against
terrorism the situation today is dire
and it is is deteriorating every passing
day to begin with we must work towards
protecting the civilians that's why
quick and Swift Delivery Aid is a must
also we should work towards achieving a
ceas fire it is
possible we should allow and provide a
safe Corridor for humanitarian teams for
the guance and we hope that this
conference will be a factor in achieving
this
result we
must arrive at an Initiative for peace
and Security in the Middle East this
begins with the humanitarian aspect
which we will
today reach some tangible measures
coupled with the security aspect
together we were able to stand up to
alqa and other terrorist organizations
and no one can deny that Hamas
represents threat to all that's why we
should drain their financial sources and
we also impose sanctions on those
responsible for the October 7th assault
we should also work to
prevent other groups from joining Hamas
in this path or benefit by their
financing resources that's why we should
start coordination the PE security
aspect is significant it should it
requires meticulous coordination between
intelligence apparatuses among all of us
that's a French president Emanuel macron
uh at the meeting of Aid groups and
world leaders and heads of Aid groups to
discuss humanitarian help in Gaza saying
that democracies of the world have a
duty to protect civilians and civilians
uh must be protected this is not
negotiable said the French President he
said the situation is dire and
deteriorating every day uh we must work
towards the ceasefire said Emanuel
macron to provide a humanitarian
Corridor we need an Initiative for peace
and security so that is French president
Emanuel
macron